hey guys been a while but I'm back just
to share a bit of knowledge with you
guys and how to break in your cleats
effectively and efficiently so that you
don't get blisters and you can get the
boot to perfectly fit your feet it's
called a shower method don't judge it's
kind of weird I guess but um yeah so
basically what you're going to be doing
is you're making a shower with your
cleats on I'll get more into it later
the reason for this is because lately
soccer shoes or boots or place whatever
I have been moving towards synthetic
materials compared to leather and the
reason for that is leather is kind of
hard to get and synthetic materials are
so much cheaper and easier to make and
leather takes on a lot of water water
and synthetic does not as much so
they're kind of lean more towards
synthetic materials there even phasing
out a lot of other boots that have been
traditional or yeah under the
traditional label so that's why I think
it's really important that you can break
in your synthetic cleats very fast and
well so I think no chair fit perfectly
because that's really what it's all
about synthetic boots um when you first
get them out of the box they don't
really fit your feet as well as t'other
night and they don't tend to mold or
break in as easily as leather so that's
why I think the shower technique is a
really good for breaking them cleats and
yeah so let's give in to it so before
you do this what you need is your cleats
are going to need a pair of socks /
phillippe preferably the ones you're
going to wear when you place the soccer
and newspaper here you can chair it up
and kind of punch it up like this I did
beforehand just for times sake so what
you're going to do is put your put your
socks on put your cleats on hop in the
shower and you want to make sure the
water isn't too hot if it's really
really hot it's gonna it's going to tear
it's going to like wear out the glue
between your upper and the soleplate and
you don't want that you really don't
want that so make sure it's like
lukewarm water just like just like kind
of decently warm and we're going to do
is take a full shower with that water
and with it boots on and what you want
to do is make sure it just boots get
completely sold like your socks are
completely soaked the insole
fully soaked and you can move your feet
around econo kind of like like like a
sculpting sound and nothing that's good
that's a good thing you want that and
yeah so after after that I'll just turn
the shower off and then hop out and take
your socks off and take your shoes off
first but uh yeah so make sure you wash
your feet too is pretty gross and then
what you going to do is put your boots
wherever and then got a newspaper and
what we're going to do is kind of bunch
it up like this so yeah and then you're
gonna kind of shove it into the boot put
it in there you don't want to like force
it in too much because then you're going
to change the shape of the boot and you
just kind of want to make sure it's
touching the edges I mean outside to the
of the inside of the boot exception but
yeah so that's going to dry out the boot
and also kind of maintain its shape one
thing you really don't want to do is you
see the kind of shape with Abby right
now it's kind of natural it's kind of
like follows contours the thing if you
shove the newspaper into hard like that
you see how it's got balls or not I got
and then you're gonna you're changing
that you're actually changing the boot
doing that this is gonna drive that way
and it's inviting the system that
matures of different properties so you
definitely want to stay away from that
and make sure you just put it in so that
kind of doesn't bulge and yeah so um
that should that should reduce the
break-in time and even make the shoes
mold to your feet a lot better you can
do this for leather cleats even and it
works a lot better on leather cleats not
gonna lie after like through me you
might have to do like two or three four
times before the boots ready start to
break in if you're comfortable the break
in time for cleats has reduced
considerably in the last few years but
still sometimes you do have to do that
right out of the box and it's going to
make your life a lot easier so uh yeah
that's even a method just clean the
boots like I get it just now and they're
they're pretty clean so yea once again
knees diaper socks shoes don't use
really hot water and uh yeah that's
pretty much it guys have any questions
leave in the comments below and I'll see
you guys around